General brush up of PowerToys docs (#4558)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-uwp: hub/powertoys/color-picker.md

---
title: PowerToys Color Picker utility for Windows
description: A system-wide color picking utility for Windows to pick colors from the screen and copy the default value to your clipboard.
ms.date: 08/03/2023
ms.topic: article
ms.localizationpriority: medium
no-loc: [PowerToys, Windows, ColorPicker, Color, Picker]
---

# Color Picker utility

A system-wide color picking utility for Windows to pick colors from any screen and copy it in a configurable format to your clipboard.

![ColorPicker.](../images/pt-colorpicker-hex-editor.png)

## Getting started

> ### Enable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enabling Color Picker
```

Again, this could be out of scope for the PR, but I think the headings could do with being a bit more specific on this page.

We should also make them more consistent - if it's 'Getting' in the H2, it should be 'Enabling' and 'Activating' in the H3s.

Author: Yeah I see the point. My English is pretty good, but the choice between the "Enable" versus "Enabling" form is too ambiguous for me. I'll trust in your suggestions here.

> To start using Color Picker, enable it in the PowerToys Settings (Color Picker tab).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start using Color Picker, enable it in the PowerToys Settings (**Color Picker** tab).
```

Tab names should be in bold.

> ### Activate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Activating Color Picker
```

Once enabled, you can choose one of the following three behaviors to be executed when launching Color Picker with the activation shortcut (default: <kbd>Win</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd>).

:::image type="content" source="../images/pt-colorpicker-activation.gif" alt-text="ColorPicker behaviors.":::

- **Editor** - Opens editor window directly, from here you can choose a color from the history, fine-tune a selected color, or capture a new color by opening the color picker.
- **Color Picker with editor mode enabled** - Opens Color Picker. After selecting a color, the editor is opened and the selected color is copied to the clipboard (in the default format - configurable in the Settings dialog).
- **Color Picker only** - Opens Color Picker only and the selected color will be copied to the clipboard.

> ### Select color

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Selecting colors
```

> ## Editor usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using the Color Picker editor
```

> The editor lets you see the history of (up to 20) picked colors and copy their representation in any predefined string format. In PowerToys Settings you can configure which color formats are visible in the editor and in what order that they appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The editor lets you see the history of (up to 20) picked colors and copy their representation in any predefined string format. In PowerToys Settings, you can configure which color formats are visible in the editor and in what order that they appear.
```

> - Activation shortcut
> - Behavior of activation shortcut
> - The default format of a copied color (HEX, RGB, etc.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Activation shortcut**
- **Activation behaviour**
- **Default color format**, such as HEX, RGB, and more.
```

I think these should be the exact UI text and, therefore, in bold.

Again, let me know if this is out of scope for this PR!

Reviewer: If this is out of scope, it might be worth impoving the lead-in line on line 63 to something like:

> In Color Picker, you can configure:

> - Show the name of the color. The shown name will be a high-level representation of the color. Example: Light Green, Green, Dark Green.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Show color name** shows a high-level representation of the color. For example: Light Green, Green, Dark Green.
``` 

See comment on lines 65-67

- Order and presence of color formats in the editor

![ColorPicker Settings screenshot.](../images/pt-colorpicker-settings.gif)

To add a new color format, select **Add custom color format**.

To reorder the colors, select the **...** button on the right and select **Move up** or **Move down**.

> To disable a color format, toggle the switch on the right. Disabled color formats are not deleted but are not shown in the Color Picker Editor window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable a color format, turn off the toggle next to that color format. Disabled color formats are not deleted but are not shown in the Color Picker editor window.
```

Change the way that [toggles are described to be in line with the style guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/describing-interactions-with-ui).

Removed the capital letter from 'Editor' to be consistent with the editor section earlier on the page.

To delete a color format, select the button with the bin icon.

> To edit a color format, click on the list item. In the appearing window the name and the format can be modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To edit a color format, select it from the list. You can edit the color format's **Name** and **Format** in the dialog.
```

### Managing color formats

> Color formats can be deleted or edited and new color formats can be added to the list. The syntax is described in the color format editor window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add, edit, and delete color formats. The syntax is described in the color format editor dialog.
```

Replaces passive voice with active voice.
